# Supermarket-Sales-Analysis
In this project, I have created an annual sales report for a supermarket, analyzing sales for 2021-2022 using Excel. The goal was to analyze sales trends, profit, profit percentage, and revenue by different sales types to help the supermarket make informed decisions and boost sales in 2023.

## Dataset 
The key columns in the dataset include:
Input Data: Date, ProductID, Quantity, Sale Type, Payment Mode, Discount
Master Data: ProductID, Product, Category, Unit of Measure (UOM), Buying Price, Selling Price

## Visualizations
The project includes various insights visualized through charts and graphs, such as:
Monthly Sales, Profit, and Profit %
Product-wise sales
Revenue generated by Online, Direct Sales, and Wholesalers
Top Product and Category
Payment Modes
Top 5 Categories

## Key Insights
Profit increased by 3% in 2022 compared to 2021.
Direct sales contributed the most to revenue, compared to online and wholesaler sales.
In 2021, 52% of payments were made online, and 48% by cash. In 2022, this reversed, with 52% of payments made in cash and 48% online.
In 2021, Product ID 42 had 79 units sold, generating sales of $12,798. In 2022, Product ID 30 had 69 units sold, generating sales of $13,888.

## Conclusion
Focus on Product 30 and Category 04, which have shown higher revenue despite lower quantities sold. Offering discounts and launching targeted marketing campaigns could help increase the sales volume and further boost revenue through direct selling.









